>> Ifill: INVESTIGATORS TRIED TO
DETERMINE TODAY WHY THE JET THAT
CRASHED AT SAN FRANCISCO'S
AIRPORT SATURDAY WAS FLYING TOO
LOW AND TOO SLOWLY.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ON THE "NEWSHOUR" TONIGHT, WE
GET THE LATEST ON THE ACCIDENT,
WHICH KILLED WO CTHINESE
TEENAGERS AND SENT MORE THAN 180
PEOPLE TO THE HOSPITAL FROM THE
HEAD OF THE NATIONAL
TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD,
DEBORAH HERSMAN.
>> Ifill: AND HARI SREENIVASAN
UPDATES ANOTHER TRANSPORTATION
DISASTER; THE OIL TANKER TRAIN
THAT EXPLODED IN CANADA KILLING
AT LEAST 13 WITH DOZENS STILL
MISSING AND A TOWN INCINERATED.
>> Woodruff: WE RETURN TO EGYPT,
WHERE THE DEATH TOLL TOPPED 50
WHEN THE MILITARY OPENED FIRE ON
BACKERS OF THE DEPOSED
PRESIDENT.
>> Ifill: RAY SUAREZ EXPLORES
THE OPTIONS TO COMBAT SUSPECTED
CHINESE CYBER-ESPIONAGE THAT
TARGETS U.S. INDUSTRIES AND
TRADE SECRETS.
>> CHINESE CYBER HACKING HAS
BEEN GOING ON FOR A LONG TIME.
WHAT'S NEW IS THAT WERE FINALLY
FED UP AND WANT TO DO SOMETHING
ABOUT IT.
>> Woodruff: AND JEFFREY BROWN
TALKS WITH AUTHOR COLUM McCANN
ABOUT WEAVING TOGETHER THREE
REAL-LIFE ATLANTIC CROSSINGS
OVER THREE CENTURIES IN HIS
LATEST WORK OF FICTION.
>> WHAT WAS IT LIKE TO CONSTRUCT
THAT, AS A NOVELIST, DID YOU
KNOW HOW ALL THESE CONNECTIONS
WERE GOING TO HAPPEN?
>> HONESTLY?
>> HONESTLY.
>> I HAD NO CLUE WHATSOEVER, IT
DROVE ME NUTS.
(LAUGH)
>> Ifill: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
>> Woodruff: THERE REMAINED MORE
QUESTIONS THAN ANSWERS TODAY
ABOUT THE WEEKEND CRASH OF A
SOUTH KOREAN JETLINER IN SAN
FRANCISCO.
INVESTIGATORS SEARCHED FOR A
CAUSE AS EMERGENCY OFFICIALS
WONDERED ALOUD HOW NEARLY
EVERYONE ON BOARD SURVIVED.
"NEWSHOUR" CORRESPONDENT SPENCER
MICHELS BEGINS OUR COVERAGE.
>> Reporter: PLANES AT SAN
FRANCISCO INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
TAXIED PAST THE BURNED OUT SHELL
OF THE BOEING 777 TODAY.
IT WAS A HAUNTING REMINDER OF
THE CHAOTIC SCENE THAT UNFOLDED
SATURDAY.
FEDERAL INVESTIGATORS SAY IT'S
ALREADY CLEAR THAT ASIANA
AIRLINES FLIGHT 214 WAS FLYING
SIGNIFICANTLY BELOW THE
NECESSARY LANDING SPEED AND WAS
FLYING TOO LOW.
COCKPIT AND FLIGHT DATA
RECORDERS SHOW SOMEONE CALLED
FOR INCREASING SPEED, JUST SEVEN
SECONDS BEFORE THE CRASH.
THEN, A STALL WARNING SOUNDED,
AND THE CREW TRIED TO ABORT
LANDING, BUT IT WAS TOO LATE.
THE HEAD OF THE NATIONAL
TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD
DEBORAH HERSMAN:
>> WHEN WE INTERVIEW THOSE FOUR
CREW MEMBERS, WE'RE GOING TO GET
A LOT MORE DETAILS ABOUT THEIR
ACTIVITIES, ABOUT THEIR WORK,
ABOUT THEIR TRAINING.
WE'RE GOING TO BE LOOKING TO
CORRELATE ALL THAT INFO WITH
WHAT WE'RE FINDING ON THE
COCKPIT VOICE RECORDER AND
FLIGHT DATA RECORDERS.
>> Reporter: INVESTIGATORS ARE
FOCUSING PARTLY ON THE PILOT,
WHO HAD LOGGED JUST 43 HOURS ON
THE BOEING 777.
IT WAS LEE GANG-GUK'S FIRST TIME
LANDING A 777 AT SAN FRANCISCO'S
AIRPORT, THOUGH HE HAD LANDED
OTHER CRAFT THERE MANY TIMES, AN
AIRLINE SPOKESMAN SAID.
HE DID HAVE NEARLY 10,000 FLIGHT
HOURS ON OTHER AIRCRAFT.
BUT WHATEVER CAUSED THE CRASH,
REMARKABLY, 305 OF THE 307
PASSENGERS AND CREW MEMBERS
SURVIVED.
>> WHEN I STAND UP I SAW THE
TAIL, WHERE THE KITCHEN LOCATED,
IS ALL MISSING.
THERE WAS A BIG HOLE THERE, AND
I CAN SEE THROUGH THE HOLE TO
THE RUNWAY, THE GROUND, AND
THERE WAS A LOT OF DUST IN THE
CABIN.
>> Reporter: SOME OF THE
SURVIVORS QUICKLY TWEETED
ACCOUNTS OF THEIR HARROWING
EAPE,SC EVEN AS THE RESCUE
OPERATION WAS STILL UNDER WAY.
TODAY, LIEUTENANT CRISSY EMMONS
OF THE SAN FRANCISCO FIRE
DEPARTMENT DESCRIBED WHAT SHE
SAW INSIDE THE PLANE AS IT
CAUGHT ON FIRE.
>> BY THE TIME WE REMOVED THE
FINAL VICTIM, THE CONDITIONS
WERE THAT THE FIRE WAS BANKING
DOWN ON US-- WE HAD HEAVY BLACK
SMOKE.
I FEEL VERY LUCKY AND BLESSED WE
WERE ABLE TO GET THOSE PEOPLE
OUT IN THAT TIME.
>> Reporter: TWO 16-YEAR-OLD
NLRLS FROM CHINA WERE THE OY
FATALITIES AND ONE OF THEM MAY
HAVE ESCAPED THE PLANE, ONLY TO
BE HIT BY A RESCUE VEHICLE
RUSHING TO THE SCENE.
BUT ASSISTANT DEPUTY FIRE CHIEF
DALE CARNES SAYS IT'S TOO SOON
TO TELL FOR SURE.
>> IT'S A VERY DYNAMIC
ENVIRONMENT, DEALING WITH AN
ACTIVE FIRE AND TRYING TO RESCUE
IN THE REALM OF 300 VICTIMS.
SO, THIS TIME, BECAUSE WE HAVE
NOT CLEARLY DEFINED AND
ESTABLISHED THOSE FAC, WETS
CANNOT ANSWER YOUR QUESTIONS.
>> Reporter: AS THE PLANE CAME
TO REST, PASSENGERS SCRAMBLED TO
GET OUT, DESPITE EMERGENCY
CHUTES THAT DEPLOYED INSIDE THE
CABIN.
62 OF THEM ENDED UP HERE AT SAN
FRANCISCO GENERAL HOSPITAL,
WHILE ANOTHER 55 WENT TO
STANFORD.
GEOFFREY MANLEY IS HEAD OF
NEUROSURGERY AT SAN FRANCISCO
GENERAL, WHICH HAS DISCHARGED
MOST OF ITS PATIENTS, BUT STILL,
AND TWO WITH SERIOUS SPINAL CORD
INJULECOULD  ADADTO
PARALYSS.I
>> THE LIGAMENTS WERE SIMPLY
RIPPED AS THEY WENT FORWARD AND
BACK IN THE SEAT WITH ASSOCIATED
BONE FRACTURES AS WELL.
IT IS POSSIBLE THAT THESE FOLKS
WILL NEVER WALK AGAIN.
IT IS ALSO POSSIBLE THAT WITH
SOME OF THIS RAPID SURGERY AND
AGGRESSIVE MANAGEMENT IN THE
INTENSIVE CARE UNIT THAT THEY
WILL HAVE A CHANCE TO POSSIBLY
REGAIN SOME FUNCTION.
>> Reporter: MANLEY SAID MANY
INJURIES WERE NOT APPARENT AT
FIRST.
>> MANY OF THESE PATIENTS LOOKED
MUCH BETTER THAN THEY IMAGED, SO
THAT WE HAD PEOPLE WHO WERE THE
WALKING WOUNDED.
WHERE WHEN WE WERE ABLE TO GET
THE C.T. SCANS AND SO ON WE WERE
ABLE TO SEE THERE WAS GROSS
INSTABILITY OF THEIR CERVICAL
SPINES, THORASIC SPINES, AND
LUMBAR SPINES AS A RESULT OF
THIS INJURY.
>> Reporter: MEANWHILE, SOME OF
THE CRASH SURVIVORS RETURNED TO
SOUTH KOREA TODAY.
AND, THE GOVERNMENT IN SEOUL
ORDERED INSPECTIONS OF THE
ENGINES AND LANDING EQUIPMENT
FOR ALL BOEING 777 JETLINERS
OWNED BY ASIANA AIRLINES AND
SOUTH KOREA'S NATIONAL CARRIER,
KOREAN AIR.
>> Woodruff: FOR MORE ON THE
ACCIDENT AND QUESTIONS ABOUT THE
SPEED OF THE PLANE'S LANDING, WE
TURN TO THE CHAIR OF THE
NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY
BOARD, DEBORAH HERSMAN.
SHE'S JOINING US FROM SAN
FRANCISCO.
WELCOME TO
THE NEWSHOUR.
WE HEARD YOU SAY TODAY OR
CONFIRM THAT THE PLANE WAS
COMING IN AT A MUCH SLOWER SPEED
THAN IT SHOULD HAVE BEEN.
WHAT ARE THE POSSIBLE
EXPLANATIONS FOR THAT?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, WE ARE
LOOKING AT EVERYTHING.
CERTAINLY WE WANT TO LOOK AND
SEE IF THERE ARE EASY
EXPLANATIONS FOR THIS.
BUT MANY TIMES WHAT WE FIND IS
IT'S A LITTLE BIT MORE COMPLEX
THAN THAT.
THERE'S NOT USUALLY A SINGLE
CAUSE OF AN ACCIDENT BUT
MULTIPLE CONTRIBUTING FACTORS.
SO WE'RE GOING TO BE LOOKING AT
THE CREW, THEIR EXPERIENCE,
THEIR FAMILIARITY WITH THE
AIRCRAFT.
HOW THEY WERE MONITORING
AIRCRAFT SPEED.
THIS IS NOT THE FIRST TIME THAT
WE'VE SEEN A CRASH UPON LANDING.
AND NOT THE FIRST TIME WE'VE
SEEN AN AIRPLANE GET SLOW AND
END UP IN A BAD SITUATION.
SO, WE WANT TO UNDERSTAND THE
HUMANS.
WE ALSO WANT TO UNDERSTAND THE
AIRCRAFT, THE PERFORMANCE OF THE
AIRCRAFT.
HOW THE AUTOMATION WORKED, WHAT
TYPE OF FLYING THEY WERE DOING.
WERE THEY ALL HAND FLYING THE
AIRPLANE?
WERE THEY RELYING ON AUTOMATION
OR WERE THEY DOING A MIXTURE OF
THOSE TWO THINGS?
HOW ALL OF THAT WORKS CAN BE
SIMPLE.
BUT IT CAN ALSO BE COMPLICATED.
WE WANT TO MAKE SURE WE HAVE ALL
OF THE FACTS STRAIGHT BEFORE WE
REACH ANY CONCLUSIONS.
>> Woodruff: DOES IT RAISE
CONCERNS THAT THE PILOT AT THE
CONTROLS HAD ONLY 43 HOURS'
EXPERIENCE FLYING THIS
PARTICULAR PASSENGER JET?
AND THAT THIS IS HIS FIRST
LANDING AT SAN FRANCISCO ON THIS
AIRCRAFT?
>> WELL, WE KNOW THAT AIRLINERS
AND AIR CREWS OPERATE ALL AROUND
THE WORLD.
THEY COME INTO AIRPORTS THAT
THEY MAY NOT BE FAMILIAR WITH.
THAT'S WHY WE HAVE STANDARD
PROCEDURES APPROACH CHART
CLEARANCES, EXPECTATIONS HOW
THEY'RE GOING TO COMMUNICATE
WITH AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL.
THEY HAD THE CHARTS FOR SAN
FRANCISCO.
WE HAVE BEEN IN THE COCKPIT
AFTERWARDS.
WE KNOW THAT THEY WERE USING
THOSE.
WE HAVE MORE THAN ONE PILOT IN
THESE COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS FOR
A REASON.
AND CLEARLY WHEN YOU HAVE A
PILOT ON INITIAL OPERATING
EXPERIENCE OR GOING THROUGH SOME
TRAINING, YOU WANT TO PAIR THEM
WITH AN EXPERIENCED PILOT WHO
CAN HELP THEM IF THERE ARE ANY
PROBLEMS.
THERE IS MORE THAN ONE PERSON IN
THE COCKPIT FOR A REASON.
WE EXPECT THEM TO WORK TOGETHER.
TO USE GOOD CREW RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT AND TO FOCUS ON
FLYING THE AIRCRAFT FIRST,
NAVIGATING, COMMUNICATING.
THEY HAVE A LOT OF
RESPONSIBILITY UP THERE.
WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT WE
LEARN FROM THIS INVESTIGATION.
>> Woodruff: AND FINALLY, THIS
ACCIDENT HAPPENED AT THE END OF
A TEN-HOUR FLIGHT FROM SEOUL.
HOW MUCH CONCERN IS THERE IN THE
AVIATION INDUSTRY IN GENERAL
ABOUT FATIGUE ON THE PART OF THE
FLIGHT CREW?
>> YOU KNOW, THAT'S A FANTASTIC
QUESTION.
SAFETY BOARD LISTED FATIGUE FOR
DECADES.
IT'S BEEN ON OUR MOST WANTED
LIST OF TRANSPORTATION SAFETY
IMPROVEMENTS MANY TIMES.
THIS IS A TRANSPACIFIC FLIGHT.
MORE THAN 10 HOURS.
WE'VE GOT ACTUALLY TWO CREWS ON
THIS FLIGHT.
ONE IS A RELIEF CREW.
BECAUSE AS YOU LOOKATE AT FLIGHT
AND DUTY TIME AND YOU LOOK AT
FATIGUE IT IS A CONCERN.
AND SO WE WANT TO TALK TO ALL
FOUR OF THOSE PILOTS, UNDERSTAND
WHAT WAS GOING ON AND IT IS
INTERESTING THAT FLIGHT AND DUTY
RULE CHANGES HAVE TAKEN PLACE
HERE IN THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE FIRST TIME IN MANY, MANY
DECADES.
WE SAW THAT THERE WERE CHANGES
MADE TO THE LAW AFTER THE LAST
COMMERCIAL AVIATION ACCIDENT IN
FEBRUARY OF 2009.
AND THOSE CHANGES HAVE RESULTED
IN MORE CONSERVATIVE FLIGHT AND
DUTY TIME FOR PILOTS SO THAT
THEY GET MORE REST AND THAT
THERE ARE LIMITATIONS ON WHAT
THEY CAN DO.
>> Woodruff: DEBORAH HERSMAN THE
CHAIRMAN OF THE NATIONAL
TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD WE
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
Woodruff: JOINING US NOW IS
AVIATION SAFETY EXPERT PETER
GOELZ, A FORMER MANAGING
DIRECTOR OF THE N.T.S.B. FROM
1959 TO 2000.
PETER GOELZ, WHAT ARE YOUR
PRINCIPAL CONCERNS AS YOU LOOK
AT WHAT HAPPENED IN THIS CRASH.
>> WELL, I THINK CHAIRMAN
HERSMAN KNOWS WHAT SHE'S TALKING
ABOUT.
THIS IS GOING TO BE LOOKED AT
FOR YEARS TO COME AS KIND OF A
CLASSIC CREW RESOURCE ISSUE.
HOW COULD YOU HAVE TWO WELL
TRAINED CREW MEMBERS ALLOWING
THEIR APPROACH SPEED TO BLEED
OFF TO SUCH A LOW LEVEL THAT THE
AIRCRAFT'S STALL WARNING GOES
OFF?
IT IS REALLY QUITE INEXPLICABLE.
>> Woodruff: LITERALLY
INEXPLICABLE.
ARE YOU SAYING THERE'S NO
EXPLANATION FOR WHY THAT WOULD
HAVE HAPPENED?
>> WELL, YOU HAVE TWO TRAINED
PEOPLE.
THERE'S THREE THINGS YOU NEED TO
DO.
YOU NEED TO WATCH YOUR SPEED.
YOU NEED TO WATCH YOUR ALTITUDE.
WATCH YOUR ATTITUDE.
THIS WAS NOT JUST A SLIGHT
DEGRADATION OF SPEED.
THIS WAS DOWN TO 100 KNOTS.
34 KNOTS BELOW THEIR APPROACH
SPEED.
IT REALLY IS... IF THE FLYING ME
NONFLYING PILOT SHOULD HAVE
BEEN.
>> Woodruff: AND WHEN YOU SAY
THAT THE... AND WE HEARD DEBORAH
HERSMAN SPEAK ABOUT THEY'RE
GOING TO BE LOOKING AT HOW THE
PILOTS INTERACTED WITH EACH
OTHER.
ARE YOU SAYING THAT IT COULD
HAVE BEEN COMMUNICATION BETWEEN
THE PILOTS?
I MEAN, I'M TRYING TO UNDERSTAND
WHAT COULD HAVE HAPPENED HERE.
>> WELL, THEY'LL LOOK AT, YOU
KNOW, YOU HAVE AT LEAST 30
MINUTES OF THE VOICE RECORDER.
AND THE N.T.S.B. WILL LISTEN TO
THAT TO SEE HOW THE CREW
APPROACHES THE LANDING.
DID THEY LOOKATE AT THE APPROACH
MAPS?
DID THEY DISCUSS THE VARIOUS
NOTICES THAT WERE THERE WHICH
WAS A NOTICE THAT SAID THE GLIDE
SLOPE WAS OUT.
DID THEY DISCUSS WHAT THEY WOULD
DO IF THEY WERE GOING TO HAVE TO
DO A GO-AROUND?
THESE ARE STANDARD PROCEDURES
THAT THE FLIGHT CREWS HAVE TO
DO.
WERE THEY PAYING ATTENTION TO
THEIR JOBS?
THAT'S WHAT THE VOICE RECORDER
WILL TELL US.
>> PETER GOELZ, YOU TOLD US
EARLIER THIS AFTERNOON THAT ONE
OF THE CONCERNS IN THE INDUSTRY
HAS TO DO WITH PILOTS BEING S HY
ADVANCED AVIONICS ELECTRONICS ON
THESE PLANES THAT THEY DON'T GET
THE KIND OF EXPERIENCE THEY NEED
TO DEAL IN AN EMERGENCY
SITUATION.
CAN YOU EXPAND ON THAT.
>> YEAH, IT'S AN ISSUE REALLY
THAT THE FLIET SAFETY
FOUNDATION, ONE OF THE PREMIERE
SAFETY ORGANIZATIONS IN THE
WORLD HAS BEEN STARTING TO POINT
OUT THAT BECAUSE WE HAVE SUCH
FABULOUS AVIONICS AND FLIGHT
CONTROL SYSTEMS IN OUR PLANES
TODAY, THE PILOTS ARE NOT BEING
ASKED OR NOT REQUIRED TO REALLY
GET THE FLYING HANDS-ON-FLYING
EXPERIENCE THAT THEY USED TO.
AND THE ACCIDENT A FEW YEARS AGO
OF THE AIR FRANCE A330 OVER THE
SOUTH ATLANTIC REALLY SHOWED
THAT THE FLIGHT CREW -- AGAIN,
VERY EXPERIENCED -- COULD NOT
DIAGNOSE, COULD NOT OVERCOME THE
CONFUSION IN THE COCKPIT TO
ACTUALLY FLY THE PLANE.
AND I THINK THERE IS A CONCERN
THAT PILOTS MAY BE LOSING THEIR
PILOTING EDGE WITH THE GREAT
ADVANCES IN FLIGHT AVIONICS.
>> Woodruff: JUST FINALLY, WE
KNOW THERE WERE SERIOUS
INJURIES.
WE HEARD FROM THE SURGEON THAT
SOME OF THESE PASSENGERS MAY NOT
WALK AGAIN.
WE KNOW THERE WERE TWO DEATHS.
BUT WHY DO YOU BELIEVE THERE
WEREN'T MORE CASUALTIES IN THIS
CRASH?
>> WELL, THAT'S A GREAT
QUESTION, JUDY.
AND THE ANSWER IS GOVERNMENT
REGULATIONS.
THE F.A.A. INSTITUTED
REGULATIONS MANDATING STRONGER
SEATS, MANDATING THAT THE
INTERIOR OF AIRCRAFT BE MORE
FIRE RETARDANT AND THAT THEY NOT
EMIT TOXIC GASES WHEN IGNITED.
THESE ARE STEPS THAT HAVE SAVED
LIVES.
IT'S NICE TO SEE IT.
IT WAS A EVENT BUT 20
YEARS AGO THE DEATH TOLL WOULD
HAVE BEEN MUCH GREATER.
>> Woodruff: PETER GOELZ, THANK
YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: COMING UP, WE EXAMINE
THE WEEKEND'S OTHER
TRANSPORTATION DISASTER; THE
FIERY TRAIN CRASH IN CANADA;
ALSO, EGYPT'S DEADLY CLASHES;
CHINA'S CYBER SPYING AND
NOVELIST COLUM McCANN.
BUT FIRST, WITH THE OTHER NEWS
OF THE DAY.
HERE'S HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: ANOTHER FATAL
AIR CRASH WAS UNDER
INVESTIGATION TODAY IN ALASKA.
AN AIR TAXI WENT DOWN SUNDAY AT
A SMALL AIRPORT, KILLING ALL TEN
PEOPLE ON BOARD.
THE PLANE APPARENTLY WAS TAKING
OFF, ABOUT 75 MILES SOUTHWEST OF
ANCHORAGE, WHEN IT CRASHED AND
EXPLODED INTO FLAMES.
THERE WAS NO IMMEDIATE WORD ON
THE CAUSE.
THE MAN WHO LEAKED DETAILS OF
U.S. GOVERNMENT SURVEILLANCE HAS
BEEN HEARD FROM AGAIN.
A BRITISH NEWSPAPER TODAY POSTED
COMMENTS THAT EDWARD SNOWDEN
MADE BEFORE WASHINGTON BEGAN
EFFORTS TO CAPTURE AND PROSECUTE
HIM.
THE STATEMENTS ARE FROM THE
INTERVIEW SNOWDEN GAVE IN HONG
KONG LAST MONTH, TO LONDON'S
"GUARDIAN" NEWSPAPER.
IN IT, HE INSISTS HE WAS
MOTIVATED ONLY BY HIS CONCERN
THAT SURVEILLANCE HAS GONE TOO
FAR.
>> I DON'T WANT TO LIVE IN A
WORLD WHERE EVERYTHING THAT I
SAY, EVERYTHING I DO, EVERYONE I
TALK TO, EVERY EXPRESSION OF
CREATIVITY OR LOVE OR FRIENDSHIP
IS RECORDED.
AND THAT'S NOT SOMETHING I'M
WILLING TO SUPPORT.
>> Sreenivasan: THE NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENCY SAYS IT MONITORS
ONLY COMMUNICATIONS LINKED TO
FOREIGN TARGETS.
SNOWDEN CLAIMS IT IS FAR MORE
EXTENSIVE, AND HE ACCUSES U.S.
OFFICIALS OF MISLEADING THE
PUBLIC.
>> WE'RE COMPOUNDING THE
EXCESSES OF PRIOR GOVERNMENTS
AND MAKING IT WORSE AND MORE
INVASIVE.
NO ONE IS STANDING TO STOP IT.
>> Sreenivasan: HE ALSO PREDICTS
THE REACTION TO HIS DISCLOSURES.
>> I THINK THEY ARE GOING TO SAY
I'VE COMMITTED GRAVE CRIMES.
YOU KNOW, I'VE VIOLATED THE
ESPIONAGE ACT.
THEY ARE GOING TO SAY, YOU KNOW,
I'VE AIDED OUR ENEMIES IN MAKING
THEM AWARE OF THESE SYSTEMS, BUT
THAT ARGUMENT CAN BE MADE
AGAINST ANYBODY WHO REVEALS
INFORMATION THAT POINTS OUT MASS
SURVEILLANCE SYSTEMS BECAUSE
FUNDAMENTALLY THEY APPLY EQUALLY
TO OURSELVES AS OUR ENEMIES.
>> Sreenivasan: SINCE THEN,
SNOWDEN HAS INDEED BEEN CHARGED
WITH ESPIONAGE, AND IS NOW A
FUGITIVE, HOLED UP IN A TRANSIT
AREA AT A MOSCOW AIRPORT.
VENEZUELA, BOLIVIA AND NICARAGUA
HAVE OFFERED HIM ASYLUM.
THE DEFENSE OPENED ITS CASE
TODAY FOR ARMY PRIVATE
BRADLEY MANNING, WHO ADMITS
GIVING THOUSANDS OF CLASSIFIED
DOCUMENTS TO WIKILEAKS.
HIS COURT-MARTIAL IS NOW IN ITS
SIXTH WEEK AT FORT MEADE,
MARYLAND.
DEFENSE LAWYERS BEGAN BY SHOWING
A 39-MINUTE COCKPIT VIDEO FROM A
U.S. HELICOPTEATTAR CK THAT
KILLED 11 MEN IN IRAQ, INCLUDING
TWO JOURNALISTS.
THE GOVERNOR OF TEXAS REPUBLICAN
RICK PERRY HAS ANNOUNCED HE WILL
NOT SEEK RE-ELECTION NEXT YEAR.
PERRY HAS BEEN IN OFFICE NEARLY
13 YEARS, THE MOST IN TEXAS
HISTORY.
HE MADE A FAILED ATTEMPT LAST
YEAR TO WIN THE REPUBLICAN
PRESIDENTIAL NOMINATION.
AND TODAY, IN SAN ANTONIO, HE
LEFT THE DOOR OPEN FOR ANOTHER
TRY.
>> I'LL ALSO PRAY AND REFLECT
AND WORK TO DETERMINE MY OWN
FUTURE PATH.
I MAKE THIS ANNOUNCEMENT WITH A
DEEP SENSE OF HUMILITY AND
APPRECIATION FOR THE TIME AND
THE TRUST THE PEOPLE OF THIS
STATE HAS GIVEN ME.
>> Sreenivasan: PERRY HAS
CHAMPIONED CONSERVATIVE CAUSES,
INCLUDING GUN RIGHTS AND
OPPOSITION TO ABORTION.
HE TRIED LAST MONTH TO HAVE THE
STATE LEGISLATURE ADOPT STRICT
NEW LIMITS ON ABORTION.
A DEMOCRATIC FILIBUSTER DEFEATED
THE EFFORT, BUT PERRY CALLED A
NEW SPECIAL SESSION TO TRY
AGAIN.
ON WALL STREET TODAY, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE GAINED
NEARLY 89 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,224.
THE NASDAQ ROSE FIVE POINTS TO
CLOSE NEAR 3,485.
BRITAIN CELEBRATED TODAY AS
TENNIS STAR ANDY MURRAY BASKED
IN THE GLORY OF HIS WIMBLEDON
VICTORY.
THE 26-YEAR OLD SCOTSMAN IS THE
FIRST BRITISH WINNER OF THE
MEN'S SINGLES TITLE IN 77 YEARS.
ON SUNDAY, HE BEAT THE NUMBER
ONE TENNIS PLAYER IN THE WORLD,
NOVAK DJOKOVIC, IN STRAIGHT SETS
TO CAPTURE THE CROWN.
TODAY, MURRAY VISITED 10 DOWNING
STREET TO MEET WITH DAVID
CAMERON, THE PRIME MINISTER.
HE AND THE SCOTTISH FIRST
MINISTER WITNESSED THE HISTORIC
WIN YESTERDAY.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO GWEN.
WE RETURN AGAIN TO EGYPT, WHERE
THE COUNTRY SAW ITS DEADLIEST
DAY OF VIOLENCE SINCE THE OUSTER
OF PRESIDENT MOHAMED MORSI LAST
WEEK.
MORE THAN 50 PEOPLE WERE KILLED
IN ONE INCIDENT IN CAIRO.
THE SHOOTING BEGAN JUST BEFORE
DAWN.
THOUSANDS OF MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD
SUPPORTERS WERE CAMPED OUTSIDE
AN ARMY BARRACKS WHERE FORMER
PRESIDENT MOHAMMED MORSI HAS
REPORTEDLY BEEN HELD SINCE THE
MILITARY OUSTED HIM LAST WEEK.
IT WAS A PEACEFUL SIT-IN UNTIL
THIS MORNING, AND THEN GUNFIRE
ERUPTED AS PEOPLE AWOKE FOR
MORNING PRAYERS.
>> (translated): I WOKE UP
AFTER THE PRAYER AND I HEARD
SHOTS, THEN THE FIRING STARTED
FROM THE PRESIDENTIAL GUARD
SIDE.
>> Ifill: A WOUNDED SOLDIER SAID
PROTESTERS FIRED THE FIRST
SHOTS.
>> WE WERE THERE TO ENSURE THE
SAFETY OF THE PEOE.PL
WHEN WE WERE THERE, THEY STARTED
FIRING AT US AND THROWING
MOLOTOV COCKTAILS AND BRICKS.
>> Ifill: WHOEVER SHOT FIRST,
THE DEAD, THE DYING AND THE
WOUNDED WERE CARRIED FROM THE
CHAOS AND DOCTORS AT A MAKESHIFT
FIELD HOSPITAL WERE QUICKLY
OVERRUN WITH CASUALTIES.
>> (translated): THERE ARE
DIRECT SHOTS WITH LIVE
AMMUNITION IN THE CHEST, HEAD,
IN THE NECK, ABDOMEN, DIAPHRAGM,
ALL ARE KILLING SHOTS.
>> Ifill: THERE WERE CONFLICTING
VERSIONS OF HOW THE CARNAGE
UNFOLDED.
A MILITARY SPOKESMAN SAID
TERRORISTS ATTEMPTED TO ATTACK
THE BARRACKS.
HE SHOWED VIDEO OF A FEW
PROTESTERS WITH WHAT APPEAR TO
BE HANDGUNS.
>> (translated): THE SCENE
STOPPED BEING A PEACEFUL
DEMONSTRATION THIS MORNING AT
4:00 A.M., A GROUP OF ARMED MEN
ATTACKED THE AREA SURROUNDING
THE REPUBLICAN GUARDS BUILDING
AND THE ARMED FORCES AND POLICE
PERSONNEL RESPONSIBLE FOR
GUARDING THE AREA USING LIVE
FIRE AND BULLETS.
>> Ifill: BUT GEHAD EL HADDAD,
A SPOKESMAN FOR THE MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD, INSISTED IT WAS A
COLD-BLOODED ASSAULT BY THOSE IN
UNIFORM.
>> THIS WAS A PREMEDITATED
ATTACK BY BOTH THE MILITARY AND
THE POLICE FORCE.
THE PROTESTERS THERE WERE
PEACEFUL.
THEY WERE PRAYING, THEY HAD
THEIR HEADS BOW TO THE GROUND,
THEY HAD THEIR BACKS TOWARDS THE
MILITARY AND THE MILITARY FIRED
ON THEM AND THE POLICE FORCE
FIRED ON THEM, ERRATICALLY
>> Ifill: THERE WERE ALSO
REPORTS OF AN ATTACK ON POLICE
IN PORT SAID.
THE NATION'S TOP CLERIC, WHO
RUNS AL-AZHAR-- AN ANCIENT
CENTER OF ISLAMIC LEARNING IN
CAIRO-- DECLARED THE COUNTRY
RISKED CIVIL WAR.
AND THE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD'S
POLITICAL ARM, THE FREEDOM AND
JUSTICE PARTY, CALLED OPENLY FOR
AN UPRISING AGAINST THE
MILITARY.
IN WASHINGTON, WHITE HOUSE
SPOKESMAN JAY CARNEY DENOUNCED
THE CALL TO ARMS AND APPEALED
INSTEAD FOR RESTRAINT.
HE WAS ASKED REPEATEDLY WHETHER
THE U.S. WILL LABEL THE REMOVAL
OF MORSI A COUP.
THAT WOULD FORCE A HALT IN
AMERICAN AID TO EGYPT'S
MILITARY, SOME $1.5 BILLION A
YEAR.
>> I THINK IT WOULD NOT BE IN
THE BEST INTEREST OF THE UNITED
STATES TO IMMEDIATELY CHANGE OUR
ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS TO EGYPT.
>> Ifill: BACK IN CAIRO, EGYPT'S
CARETAKER PRESIDENT ORDERED AN
INVESTIGATION INTO TODAY'S
KILLINGS.
THAT CALL WAS ECHOED BY NOBEL
PEACE LAUREATE MOHAMED EL-
BARADEI, WHO APPEARED SET OVER
THE WEEKEND TO BE OFFERED THE
PRIME MINISTER'S JOB.
BUT EGYPT'S SECOND-LARGEST
ISLAMIST FACTION, THE HARDLINE
AL NOUR PARTY, OBJECTED.
AL NOUR HAD BACKED THE ARMY'S
PLAN FOR ELECTIONS, BUT AFTER
TODAY'S VIOLENCE IN CAIRO, IT
SUSPENDED ITS SUPPORT.
AS DUSK GATHERED LATE TODAY,
TENS OF THOUSANDS OF MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD AND MORSI SUPPORTERS
AGAIN FLOCKED TO THE SITE OF THE
KILLINGS, IN PROTEST.
A SHORT TIME AGO, EGYPT'S
INTERIM LEADER ADLY MANSOUR
ISSUED A DECREE STATING THAT NEW
PARLIAMENTARY ELECTIONS WILL BE
HELD NO LATER THAN FEBRUARY
2014, AFTER AMMENDMENTS TO THE
COUNTRY'S SUSPENDED CONSTITUTION
ARE APPROVED IN A REFERENDUM.
HE ALSO SAID THAT A PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTION WILL BE HELD ONCE THE
NEW PARLIAMENT CONVENES.
FOR MORE, I'M JOINED BY STEVEN
COOK, A SENIOR FELLOW FOR MIDDLE
EASTERN STUDIES AT THE COUNCIL
ON FOREIGN RELATIONS AND AUTHOR
OF "THE STRUGGLE FOR EGYPT: FROM
NASSER TO TAHRIR SQUARE."
AND MERVAT HATEM, A PROFESSOR OF
POLITICAL SCIENCE AT HOWARD
UNIVERSITY.
STEPHEN COOK, WHAT DOES THIS
MEAN, THIS CALL FOR ELECTIONS IN
2014.
>> WELL, THIS IS AN EFFORT TO
PUT AIT
OUT OF THIS VERY, VERY DIFFICULT
UNCERTAIN AND UNSTABLE
SITUATION.
THE GOOD NEWS IN IT IS THAT THEY
ARE GOING TO APPROACH A
TRANSITION IN THE RIGHT WAY.
THEY'RE GOING TO START WITH A
CONSTITUTION AND THEN HAVE
ELECTIONS FOR THE PARLIAMENT AND
THEN HAVE ELECTIONS FOR THE
PRESIDENT.
PREVIOUSLY IN THE TRANSITION
FROM MUBARAK TO MORSI THEY HAD
ELECTIONS POUR THE PARLIAMENT
AND THEN THEY TRIED TO WRITE A
CONSTITUTION.
THEN THEY TRIED TO ELECT A
PRESIDENT.
THIS CREATED ALL KINDS OF
UNCERTAINTY AND INSTABILITY FOR
WHICH EGYPTIANS ARE NOW PAYING.
>> Ifill: DO YOU THINK THAT THIS
MEANS THAT THIS WILL ALLOW EGYPT
TO AVOID A CIVIL WAR?
>> YOU MEAN THIS NEW ROAD MAP.
Ifill: THIS NEW PLAN, THIS
ROAD MAP.
>> THE FACT THAT IT DOES PROMISE
ALL THESE CHANGES IN A VERY
SHORT PERIOD OF TIME SHOULD BE
REASSURING I THINK FOR THOSE WHO
WANTED THE MILITARY TO COMMIT
ITSELF AND THE GOVERNMENT, TO
COMMIT ITSELF TO FIRM DATES.
THEREFORE, IN THAT RESPECT I
THINK IT DOES REASSURE PEOPLE
THAT THIS IS MORE THAN OPEN
ENDED, A PROCESS THAT ALLOWS THE
MILITARY TO DO THE KINDS OF
THING THAT TRANSPIRED TODAY AND
WHICH OBVIOUSLY HAVE A DANGEROUS
ELEMENT BECAUSE I MEAN ONCE YOU
HAVE HIGH CASUALTY RATE AND IF
THESE CONTINUE, THEN THEY ASSUME
A LOGIC OF THEIR OWN.
THIS IS A CYCLE OF RETRIBUTION
AS WELL AS RECRIMINATION.
IT'S VERY DIFFICULT TO STOP IN A
VERY POLARIZED SOCIETY.
>> Ifill: LET'S TALK ABOUT THE
VIOLENCE TODAY.
IT FELT LIKE WE TURNED A CORNER
SOMEHOW AND BOTH SIDES ARE
BLAMING THE OTHER, OF COURSE,
FOR IT.
BUT WHAT DID YOU SEE?
>> WELL, IT'S VERY, VERY HARD TO
DETERMINE WHAT HAPPENED.
BOTH THE MILITARY AND THE MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD HAVE THEIR OWN
STORIES ABOUT WHAT HAPPENED.
CLEARLY THE BROTHERHOOD HASE
USING IMPLICITLY... LANGUAGE
IMPLICITLY ABOUT VIOLENCE AND
MARTYRDOM.
THE MILITARY HAS BEEN UNDER
PRESSURE AND BELIEVES THAT IT
DOES HAVE THE SUPPORT OF THE
VAST MAJORITY OF EGYPTIAN PEOPLE
WHO OF COURSE WELCOME THEM BACK
TO THE POLITICAL ARENA WHICH HAS
GIVEN THEM SOME ROOM FOR
MANEUVER TO USE FORCE.
BUT OF COURSE THE KILLING OF 51
PEOPLE AND THE INJURING OF 435
PEOPLE IS SHOCKING TO VIRTUALLY
EVERYONE.
I THINK THAT THERE IS A CHANCE
THAT THE BROTHERHOOD WILL NOT BE
MOLLIFIED BY THIS NEW ROAD MAP,
THIS CONSTITUTIONAL DECREE.
AND THERE WILL BE... THEY WILL
BE SEEKING REVENGE.
>> Ifill: SPEAKING OF THE
POLITICAL SOLUTION OR LACK OF
SOLUTION, THIS WEEKEND WE SAW
THIS WEIRD BACK-AND-FORTH ABOUT
MOHAMMED EL BARADEI WHETHER HE
WOULD BECOME PRIME MINISTER OR
NOT.
IS THAT HE IMPORTANT DEVELOPMENT
OR IS THAT A SIDE SHOW.
>> I THINK IT WAS A IMPORTANT
DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT LARGELY
BECAUSE THE AL NOUR PARTY WAS
PART OF BASICALLY THIS COALITION
BETWEEN THE MILITARY AS WELL AS
THE LIBERAL OPPONENTS THAT SORT
OF DEPOTSED THE PRESIDENT.
MORSI.
AND TO TRY AND PLACATE THAT
PARTICULAR GROUP, THEY WENT
ALONG WITH THEIR REJECTION OF
MOHAMMED EL BARADEI.
HE IS THE HEAD OF THE LIBERAL
OPPOSITION THAT PARTICIPATED IN
THE MASSIVE ORGANIZATION AND
THEREFORE WOULD NEVER BE
ACCEPTABLE TO THE AL NOUR PARTY.
IT IS REPRESENTING RIGHT NOW THE
ISLAMISTS IN THE ABSENCE OF THE
MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD WHICH
OBVIOUSLY BOYCOTTED THIS WHOLE
PROCESS BECAUSE IT'S A PROCESS
THAT DEPOTSED A DEMOCRATICALLY
ELECTED PRESIDENT SO IT WAS VERY
IMPORTANT TO TRY AND PLACATE THE
AL NOUR PARTY BY DOING THIS.
>> Ifill: THE UNITED STATES HAS
BEEN TIPTOEING THROUGH THIS.
WE SAW TODAY THAT JOHN McCAIN,
THE SENATOR FROM ARIZONA, SAID
WE SHOULD CUT OFF U.S. AID TO
EGYPT.
WE SAW THE WHITE HOUSE SAYING WE
THINK THAT MIGHT CAUSE MORE
PROBLEMS THAN IT SOLVES.
WHAT IS THE U.S.'S ROLE HERE AND
HOW MUCH OF IT COULD BACKFIRE?
>> WELL, MUCH OF EGYPT THINKS
THAT THE UNITED STATES EITHER
SUPPORTS THE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD
OR SUPPORTS THE MILITARY.
IN FACT, THE UNITED STATES HAS
BEEN ESSENTIALLY SURFING THE NEW
CYCLE.
THE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD WAS
ELECTED.
THE UNITED STATES HAD BEEN
CRITICIZED FOR SUPPORTING AN
AUTHORITARIAN REGIME FOR THE
PREVIOUS 30 YEARS AND
ACCOMMODATED ITSELF TO THE
MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD AND SOUGHT TO
WORK WITH THAT GOVERNMENT.
NOW THAT MORSI HAS BEEN DEPOTS
DEPOTSED, WASHINGTON HAS TO MAKE
A CHOICE ABOUT WHAT IT'S GOING
TO DO.
AND THUS FAR IT HASN'T MADE ONE.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION IS
TRYING TO SPLIT THE DIFFERENCE.
>> Ifill: IS THERE A GOOD CHOICE
TO BE MADE.
>> THERE ISN'T A GOOD CHOICE.
I THINK THE ADMINISTRATION HAS
MADE A MISTAKE OVER TIME BY NOT
FOCUSING ON FIRST PRINCIPLES
ABOUT DEMOCRACY, EQUAL
APPLICATION OF THE LAW,
TOLERANCE, ACCOUNTABILITY.
AND HAD THEY DONE THAT, THEY
WOULD BE IN A MUCH BETTER
POSITION THAN THEY ARE.
>> Ifill: WHAT IT SOUNDS LIKE
THEY'RE DOING TODAY, THEY'RE
TALKING ABOUT GOVERNANCE,
DEMOCRATIC GOVERNANCE RATHER
THAN AN INDIVIDUAL.
>> BUT OF COURSE WHEN THEY HAD
THE OPPORTUNITY WHILE MORSI WAS
UNDERTAKING AUTHORITARIAN MOVES
HIM SEM, THEY WERE QUITE SILENT.
>> Ifill: WHO BLINKS FIRST IN
THIS, MERVAT HATEM?
>> GOOD QUESTION.
I DON'T KNOW.
I MEAN, I THINK IF WE'RE TO SAVE
THIS TRANSITION FROM
DETERIORATING INTO A CIVIL WAR,
THEN EVERYBODY NEEDS TO
CONSCIOUSLY AGREE TO TALK TO
EACH OTHER AND TO SORT OF NOT
HEAD WHERE THIS SEEMS TO BE
HEADING WHICH IS AN ESCALATING
CYCLE OF VIOLENCE.
THE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD HAS ITS
BACK TO THE WALL.
THEREFORE, THEY ARE NOT GOING...
THEY DON'T SEE WHAT IT IS THAT
THEY COULD POSSIBLY LOSE AFTER
THIS HAS HAPPENED.
THEREFORE, IT IS INCUMBENT ON
THE OTHERS, THE LIBERAL
OPPONENTS, TO TRY AND REACH OUT
TO THEM TO MAKE SURE THAT THIS
TRANSITION WORKS BECAUSE WHAT
HAPPENED TODAY IS SERIOUS, A
SERIOUS THREAT TO ITS
POSSIBILITY.
>> Ifill: A STEP TOWARD OR AWAY
FROM DEMOCRACY, WHAT YOU'VE SEEN
HAPPEN TODAY NOT ONLY THE
VIOLENCE.
>> AWAY.
DEFINITELY.
BECAUSE THE ARMY HAS DONE THIS
ONE TIME BEFORE SINCE 2011.
REMEMBER, THEY WERE EMPOWERED
FROM FEBRUARY 2011 UNTIL 2012.
THEY DID THE SAME.
THEY ACTUALLY ENGAGED IN THE
SAME PRACTICES AGAINST THE
LIBERAL OPPOSITION AT THE TIME.
THEY ENGAGED IN SORT OF CHECKS,
THEY SORT OF LIKE PUBLICLY
HUMILIATED AND ATTACKED THE
DEMONSTRATORS.
THEY ALSO ARRESTED PEOPLE.
THEY SORT OF ALSO PROVIDED
EVIDENCE THAT THEY... IT SEEMS
LIKE DEJA-VU.
>> Ifill: ALL OVER AGAIN.
MERVAT HATEM FROM HOWARD
UNIVERSITY AND STEPHEN COOK FROM
THE COUNCIL OF FOREIGN
RELATIONS, THANK YOU BOTH SO
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NEXT, TO THE
GROWING PROBLEM OF CYBER
SECURITY.
FOR THE FIRST TIME EVER, IT'S ON
THE AGENDA AT A BI-ANNUAL
MEETING OF U.S. AND CHINA
LEADERS THIS WEEK IN WASHINGTON.
THOSE TALKS COME AMID SUSPICION
THAT CHINA IS STEALING
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY BY HACKING
INTO COMPUTER NETWORKS OF U.S.
COMPANIES.
RAY SUAREZ HAS THE STORY.
>> HELLO, FIOS NOC, CAN I HELP
YOU?
>> Reporter: AT VERIZON'S
FACILITIES AROUND THE UNITED
STATES, NETWORK ENGINEERS ARE
MONITORING INTERNET TRAFFIC.
THEY'RE WATCHING FOR ONLINE
CRIMES.
AT PLACES LIKE THIS NETWORK
OPERATION CENTER, THEY'RE
GETTING BETTER AT TRACKING THE
KIND OF ACTIVITY THAT SIGNALS
CYBER-CRIME, BUT THE CROOKS ARE
GETTING BETTER, TOO.
>> THERE IS ALWAYS THIS WHACK A
MOLE TYPE OF EFFECT WHERE EVERY
TIME WE GET A GOOD COUNTER
MEASURE TYPE CAPABILITY, A
DEFENSIVE CAPABILITY, TO REALLY
COUNTER A SPECIFIC TYPE OF
THREAT, AND IT POPS UP SOMEWHERE
ELSE.
>> Reporter: BRYAN SARTIN IS
DIRECTOR OF INVESTIGATIVE
RESPONSE AT VERIZON BUSINESS.
>> ON ANY GIVEN DAY, WE OFTEN
TIMES ARE THE BATTLE GROUND ON
WHICH CYBER ATTACKS TAKE PLACE.
WE SIT BETWEEN THE VICTIMS AND
SOURCES OF CYBER ATTACKS.
>> Reporter: ON ANY GIVEN DAY
MORE THAN 60% OF THE WORLDS
INTERNET TRAFFIC RUNS ON
VERIZON'S GLOBAL NETWORK.
ACCORDING TO THIS YEAR'S ANNUAL
REPORT ON CYBER-CRIME VERIZON
FOUND 96% OF THE WORLD'S CYBER-
ESPIONAGE, STEALING TRADE
SECRETS AND INTELLECTUAL
PROPERTY CAME FROM ONE COUNTRY:
CHINA.
SECURITY SPECIALISTS SAY CHINA
IS USING THEFT AS A NATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY, PILFERING
SOFTWARE FOR WIND TURBINES,
FIBER OPTIC CABLE TECHNOLOGY,
BLUEPRINTS FOR WEAPONS SYSTEMS
LIKE THE JOINT STRIKE FIGHTER.
JAMES MULVENON KEEPS A CLOSE EYE
ON THE CHINESE MILITARY AND
CYBER WARFARE.
>> THE CHINESE REALIZED ABOUT
TEN YEARS THAT THEY HAD A VERY
SHALLOW ECONOMIC MODERNIZATION.
THEY RECEIVED OUR COMPONENTS,
WERE ASSEMBLING AND RE-EXPORTING
IT.
THEY REALIZED THEY WANTED TO DO
INNOVATION, BUT STATE INNOVATION
IS QUITE DIFFICULT TO DO.
THEY REALIZED THE ONLY WAY TO
JUMP START THE INDIGENOUS
INNOVATION THEY WANTED WAS TO BE
ABLE TO STEAL THE TECHNOLOGY.
>> Reporter: MULVENON SAYS CHINA
MOVED FROM STEALING U.S.
MILITARY AND GOVERNMENT SECRETS
TO INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE AROUND
FIVE YEARS AGO.
>> IN ROUGHLY 2007 TO 2008,
HOWEVER, PRECISELY AROUND THE
SAME TIME THIS NEW INDIGENOUS
INNOVATION CHANGE PUSH CAME FROM
BEIJING, WE BEGAN SEEING THEM GO
AFTER COMPANIES AT THE HEART OF
THE UNITED STATES INNOVATION
ECONOMY.
NOW, IT'S BOTH THE TRADITIONALRN
ACTIVITY AS WELL AS THIS NEW
FOCUS ON COMMERCIAL ESPIONAGE.
>> Reporter: COMPANIES TARGETED
BY HACKERS AND THIEVES GENERALLY
WON'T TALK ABOUT IT PUBLICLY,
THEY'RE LOATHE TO LET
SHAREHOLDERS AND COMPETITORS
KNOW THEY'VE HAD BUSINESS PLANS,
DESIGNS, AND DATA STOLEN.
BUT ONE VETERAN CYBER SECURITY
INVESTIGATOR WAS ABLE TO LOOK
ONE THAT HAD SCORES OF IMPORTANT
DOCUMENTS STOLEN OVER THE COURSE
OF A DECADE.
AGAINST A DEFUNCT COMPANY,
BUT ONE VETERAN CYBER SECURITY
>> WELL, WHEN WE FOUND OUT THAT
WE HAD A PROBLEM WITH
INFILTRATION OF DATA, THAT'S THE
STEALING OF DATA OF OUR BIG
DOCUMENT SERVER.
WHEN WE INVESTIGATED WE FOUND
THE ACCESS WAS COMING FROM OUR
NETWORK THAT THE ATTACK WAS
THROUGH REMOTE ACCESS.
>> Reporter: BRIAN SHIELDS
WORKED FOR NORTEL, THE CANADIAN
TELECOMMUNICATIONS GIANT THAT
ONCE EMPLOYED NEARLY 100,000
PEOPLE.
HE SAID SCORES OF DOCUMENTS WERE
STOLEN BEFORE NORTEL KNOW THE
CHINESE HAD PENETRATED THEIR
SYSTEMS.
AND THAT NORTEL FAILED TO BEEF
UP CYBER SECURITY.
>> IT WAS A DEFINITE RED FLAG
WE WERE TRACING THE ORIGINATION
LOG IN ACTIVITY, AND SAW THE
DOWNLOADS WHEN THEY WERE
OCCURRING, WERE COMING FROM A
PLACE IN SHANAI, GHCHINA.
>> Reporter: NORTEL FILED FOR
BANKRUPTCY IN .BRIAN SHIELDS IFE
THOUGHT ALL THE CYBER STEALING
FROM NORTEL CONTRIBUTED TO THE
DOWNFALL OF THE COMPANY.
>> ABSOLUTELY!
THEY KEPT STEALING, AND
STEALING, AND STEALING.
>> Reporter: ONE COMPANY,
HUAWEI, THE LARGEST
TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPANY IN
CHINA, IS SUSPECTED OF ACQUIRING
NORTEL'S STOLEN DOCUMENTS AND,
MULVENON SAYS, MAKING GOOD USE
OF THEM.
>> THERE'S A WELL-DOCUMENTED
RECORD OF THEM STEALING CORE
TECHNOLOGY FROM CISCO AND NORTEL
AND AS THE NUMBER OF GLOBAL
TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT
MANUFACTURES GROWS SMALLER AND
SMALLER, I THINK THAT HUAWEI HAS
BENEFITED FROM TAKING CORE R&D
FROM OTHER PEOPLE.
>> Reporter: HUAWEI DENIES THIS.
IN AN EMAIL TO THE "NEWSHOUR,"
THEY WROTE:
>> Reporter: THE CHINESE
GOVERNMENT ALSO DENIES IT
ENGAGES IN CYBER STEALING FROM
AMERICAN COMPANIES AND SAYS THEY
ARE VICTIMS OF CYBER ATTACKS
TOO.
THE CHINESE EMBASSY IN
WASHINGTON DECLINED OUR REQUEST
TO INTERVIEW THE AMBASSADOR.
BUT A GOVERNMENT SPOKESMAN IN
BEIJING POINTED TO THE
REVELATIONS FROM FORMER N.S.A.
CONTRACTOR EDWARD SNOWDEN: THAT
THE U.S. HAD TAPPED CHINESE
TELECOMMUNICATIONS LINES.
CHINESE FOREIGN MINISTRY
SPOKESWOMAN HUA CHUNYING:
>> (translated): CHINA HOPES A
CERTAIN COUNTRY CAN STOP
IRRESPONSIBLE ATTACKS AND
ACCUSATIONS AGAINST CHINA, START
WITH THEMSELVES AND TAKE
PRACTICAL ACTION TO STRENGTHEN
MUTUAL TRUST AND COOPERATION,
AND JOINTLY SAFEGUARD PEACE AND
SECURITY OF THE CYBER SPACE.
>> Reporter: THE SNOWDEN AFFAIRS
MAKES IT HARDER TO COMPLAIN TO
THE CHINESE ABOUT CYBER
INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE, SAYS
DMITRI ALPEROVITCH, A CO-FOUNDER
OF CROWDSTRIKE, A CYBER SECURITY
FIRM.
>> I THINK IT MAKES IT MORE
DIFFICULT, BECAUSE WE ARE
CERTAINLY LOSING OUR HIGH
GROUND, THE MORAL HIGH GROUND IN
THIS CASE, THE CHINESE CAN SAY
ARE YOU DOING THE SAME THING TO
US.
OF COURSE WHAT WE ARE DOING IS
VERY DIFFERENT.
WE ARE NOT HACKING IN TO CHINESE
COMPANIES AND THEN TURNING IT
OVER TO AMERICAN COMPANIES.
WE ARE NOT ENGAGED IN ECONOMIC
ESPIONAGE.
THE CHINESE DON'T MAKE THAT
DISTINCTION.
>> Reporter: ONEAJOR SOURCE OF
CHINESE CYBER ESPIONAGE THAT HAS
GOTTEN A LOT OF ATTENTION
RECENTLY IS A MILITARY UNIT
CALLED 61398.
IT'S LOCATED IN A NON DESCRIPT
BUILDING IN SHANGHAI.
MULVENON SAYS THE FREQUENCY AND
SE
NEW HIGHS, AND THAT THE  U.S.
GOVERNMENT AND AMERICAN
INDUSTRIES HAVE HAD ENOUGH AND
ARE MOBILIZING.
>> CHINESE CYBER HACKING HAS
BEEN GOING ON FOR A LONG TIME.
WHAT'S NEW IS THAT WERE FINALLY
FED UP AND WANT TO DO SOMETHING
ABOUT IT.
>> Reporter: REPUBLICAN
CONGRESSMAN MIKE ROGERS, THE
CHAIANINRMT
PROPOSED LEGISLATION THAT WOULD
DENY ISSUING VISAS TO CHINESE
CITIZENS INVOLVED IN CYBER
THEFT, AND TO FREEZE THEIR
ASSETS, TOO.
>> THIS IS ALL ABOUT MAKING SURE
THAT THOSE ACTORS THAT WE CAN
IDENTIFY, AND BELIEVE ME WE CAN
IDENTIFY THEM.
THEY UNDERSTAND THAT THEY
UNDERSTAND THAT THERE IS A COST
FOR THEIR CYBER ESPIONAGE.
>> Reporter: DEMOCRATIC SENATOR
CARL LEVIN AND THREE SENATE CO-
SPONSORS WANT TO TAKE THE PROFIT
OUT OF CYBER-CRIME.
THEY'VE INTRODUCED LEGISLATION
THAT BLOCK PRODUCTS THAT USED
STOLEN INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
FROM ENTERING THE U.S. MARKET.
>> YOU GOT TO HIT PEOPLE IN
THEIR WALLET.
IF YOU WANT TO FINALLY ACT
AGAINST CYBER THEFT OF YOUR
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, IF YOU
REALLY WANT TO STOP IT YOU GOT
TO HAVE SOME REMEDY THAT BITES
>> Reporter: SOME CYBER SECURITY
EXPERTS DEMAND A MORE DIRECT
APPROACH.
HACKERS STEALING YOUR
IINTELLECTUAL PROPERTY OVER THE
INTERNET?
USE THE INTERNET TO GO STEAL IT
BACK!
RIGHT NOW, THAT'S AGAINST THE
LAW.
DMITRI ALPEROVITCH:
>> WHAT WE WANT IS FOR PRIVATE
COMPANIES AND INDIVIDUALS THAT
ARE VICTIMS OF THIS ACTIVITY TO
HAVE AUTHORITIES THAT THEY ENJOY
IN THE PHYSICAL SPACE OF DEFENSE
OF PROPERTY, TODAY IF SOMEBODY
STEALS YOUR DATA AND TAKES IT TO
ANOTHER MACHINE, THE BAD GUYS
MACHINE, AND YOU HAVE FULL
PROOF, YOU HAVE LOGS THAT THAT
ACTIVITY HAS TAKEN PLACE, YOU
ARE NOT AUTHORIZED TO GO INTO
THAT MACHINE AND TO TAKE YOUR
DATA BACK.
>> Reporter: BANKS BUNDLE MONEY
WITH EXPLODING DYE PACKS, MAKING
IT EASIER FOR POLICE TO IDENTIFY
ROBBERS.
AFTER THE RUSSIANS INVAD AND
UNLEASHED A CYBER ATTACK AGAINST
GEORGIA IN 2008 THE GEORGIAN
GOVERNMENT COUNTER ATTACKED WITH
THE EQUIVALENT OF A CYBER DYE
PACK.
>> THEY KNEW AN ADVERSARY WAS ON
A PARTICULAR MACHINE, AND THEY
PLACED A DOCUMENT THAT WAS
TITLED, GEORGIA NATO
NEGOTIATIONS, A WORD DOCUMENT ON
THAT MACHINE, IT WAS IMMEDIATELY
TAKEN BY THE BAD GUY.
AND WHEN THEY OPENED IT UP ON
THEIR MACHINE, IT BEACONED BACK
TO THE GEORGIANS, THEY ACTIVATED
THE WEB CAM, THEY TOOK HIS
PICTURE AND THEY PUBLISHED THAT
INFORMATION FOR EVERYONE TO SEE.
>> Reporter: ALPEROVITCH SAYS
THIS TYPE OF CYBER COUNTER IS
WHO IS STEALING THEIR MATERIAL.
EFFECTIVE MAYBE, BUT CURRENTLY
ILLEGAL.
VERIZON'S BRYAN SARTIN SAYS HE'S
FOCUSED ON BUILDING BETTER CYBER
DEFENSES.
>> IF YOU SEE A FLURRY OF
ACTIVITY FROM A PARTICULAR
PLACE, A PARTICULAR HOSTILE
ACTOR.
CAN YOU FIGHT BACK, OR DO YOU
JUST HAVE TO GET BETTER AT
TAKING A PUNCH?
>> WELL, IS IT POSSIBLE TO FIGHT
BACK?
YES, ABSOLUTELY.
BUT THERE ARE SO MANY
COMPLEXITIES THAT GET INVOLVED,
YOU ARE TALKING ABOUT
LEGALITIES, CROSSING BORDERS AND
FACETS LIKE THAT.
AND THAT IS UNFORTUNATELY A VERY
MUCKY AREA.
SO WE ARE ENTIRELY FOCUSED ON
DEFENSE.
AND AS YOU PUT IT TAKING A
PUNCH.
>> Reporter: BOTH THE UNITED
STATES AND CHINA HAVE A LOT ON
THE LINE, PLENTY OF MUTUAL
INTERESTS, AND REASONS TO AVOID
ESCALATING CYBER-WAR, OR TRADE
WAR.
THE TWO COUNTRIES CONTINUE THEIR
MEETINGS THIS WEEK.
>> Woodruff: ONLINE, ONE OF THE
CYBER SECURITY EXPERTS IN RAY'S
STORY-- DIMITRI ALPEROVITCH--
EXPLAINS HOW TO RECOGNIZE
HACKERS TRYING TO ACCESS YOUR
PERSONAL DATA.
>> Ifill: NOW TO THIS WEEKEND'S
DEADLY TRAIN ACCIDENT IN CANADA,
WHICH CLAIMED THE LIVES OF 13
PEOPLE.
MORE THAN 35 REMAIN MISSING.
AND WE TURN AGAIN TO HARI FOR
THAT STORY.
>> Sreenivasan: DISASTER STRUCK
IN THE DARK EARLY SATURDAY:
FRENCH CANADIANS LOOKED ON IN
THE FIRST, FRANTIC MOMENTS.
AND THEN, AT LEAST FIVE OIL
TANKER CARS EXPLODED, AND A
FIREBALL BURST INTO THE NIGHT
SKY.
ORANGE FLAMES ENGULFED THE CORE
OF LAC-MEGANTIC, A QUEBEC TOWN
OF SOME 6,000 PEOPLE, ABOUT 150
MILES EAST OF MONTREAL, AND NEAR
THE MAINE BORDER.
RAILWAY OFFICIALS SAID THE
PARKED TRAIN HAD GOTTEN LOOSE
AND HURTLED DOWNHILL NEARLY
SEVEN MILES BEFORE JUMPING THE
TRACKS.
>> YOU COULD SEE THE TRAIN, BUT
IT WAS GOING SO FAST YOU
COULDN'T EVEN SEE BETWEEN THE
CARS AND THERE I SAW A CAR LIFT
UP.
>> (translated): THERE WERE
THERE WAS A RUCKUS, IT LEAPED,
THERE WERE BIG BALLS OF FIRE
ABOVE THE CAFE.
WE JUMPED OVER THE RAILING, WE
CROSSED THE STREET AND JUST IN
THE TIME IT TOOK TO CROSS THE
STREET, THE STREET WAS FILLED
WITH FIRE, IT WAS A RIVER OF
FIRE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE RAGING FIRE
AND HEAVY BLACK SMOKE
FORCED A THIRD OF THE TOWN'S
RESIDENTS FROM THEIR HOMES.
ON SUNDAY, CANADIAN PRIME
MINISTER STEPHEN HARPER TOURED
THE DEVASTATION, AND SAID AT
LEAST 30 BUILDINGS WERE
DESTROYED.
>> IT LOOKS LIKE A WAR ZONE
PEOPLE AT THIS POINT, THE MOOD
IS QUITE GOOD, THE SOLIDARITY OF
EVERYBODY IS QUITE STRONG BUT I
KNOW THERE IS GOING TO BE WAVES
OF EMOTION OVER THE NEXT FEW
WEEKS AS THE EXTENT OF THIS--
AND THIS IS A VERY BIG DISASTER
IN HUMAN TERMS-- AS THE EXTENT
OF THIS BECOMES INCREASINGLY
OBVIOUS.
>> Sreenivasan: BY TODAY, SEARCH
TEAMS WERE STILL BEING HAMPERED
BY THE NEED TO KEEP TWO MORE
DERAILED TANK CARS FROM
AIN ACCIDENT
INVOLVING OIL SHIPMENTS THIS
YEAR IN CANADA, AND IT RAISED
NEW QUESTIONS ABOUT THE SAFETY
OF TRANSPORTING OIL BY RAILROAD.
ALL OF THIS, AS THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION WEIGHS APPROVAL
OF THE KEYSTONE X.L. PIPELINE TO
MOVE CRUDE FROM CANADA TO U.S.
REFINERIES ON THE GULF COAST.
FOR THE LATEST ON THE ACCIDENT,
WE'RE JOINED BY SOPHIE TREMBLAY,
A PRODUCER FOR THE CANADIAN
BROADCASTING COMPANY.
SHE WAS AT THE SCENE OVER THE
WEEKEND AND JOINS ME NOW FROM
MONTREAL.
SOPHIE, MY FIRST QUESTION IS,
THERE WAS JUST A PRESS
CONFERENCE A LITTLE WHILE AGO.
ARE INVESTIGATORS ANY CLOSER TO
DETERMINING THE CAUSE?
>> THE CAUSE, NO.
THEY ARE... THEY DID... THE
TRANSPORT SAFETY BOARD OF CANADA
DID RECOVER THE BLACK BOX.
THEY ARE GOING TO BE HOLDING A
PRESS CONFERENCE TOMORROW
MORNING, BUT AT THIS POINT THERE
ARE STILL COMPETING THEORIES,
HYPOTHESES ABOUT WHAT HAPPENED.
>> AND WHAT ABOUT SOME OF THE
NUMBERS OF THE MISSING?
WE HEARD REPORTS THAT THEY MIGHT
NOT BE IDENTIFIED EVER.
>> THAT IS THE TRUTH.
SOME PEOPLE ARE COMPARING IT TO
9/11 WHERE SOME OF THE BODIES
WERE JUST, YOU KNOW, VAPORIZED
AND THEY WON'T BE ABLE TO
RECOVER SOME OF THEM.
AT THIS POINT THEY FOUND EAT
MORE BODIES TODAY.
THAT BRINGS THE TOTAL COUNT TO
13.
THEY SAY RIGHT NOW THEY HAVE 50
ON THEIR MISSING LIST.
THAT MEANS 37 VICTIMS POSSIBLY
STILL TO BE FOUND OR NOT FOUND.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS IS A SMALL
COMMUNITY.
WHAT HAPPENS WHEN UP TO 50
PEOPLE IN ONE COMMUNITY ARE
DIRECTLY IMPACTED?
WHAT ABOUT THE RIPPLE EFFECTS OF
ALL THOSE PEOPLE YOU MET OVER
THE WEEKEND.
>> WELL, IF YOU DO THE MATH, YOU
KNOW, 60 PEOPLE WOULD BE ONE
PERCENT OF THE 6,000 PEOPLE
POPULATION.
THAT IS JUST COMPLETELY
DEVASTATING TO THEM.
EVERYONE KNOWS SOMEONE WHO IS
MISSING, AND THE TOWN IS JUST
COMPLETELY DEVASTATED RIGHT NOW
BY THIS LOSS.
IT WOULD HAVE A BIG IMPACT FOR
THEM.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT ABOUT THE
STRUCTURES, THE PHYSICAL
INFRASTRUCTURE.
A NUMBER OF BUILDINGS WERE
DECIMATED IN THIS RIGHT, RIGHT?
>> YES, 30 BUILDINGS.
LAC-MEGANTIC IS A BEAUTIFUL,
BEAUTIFUL PART OF QUEBEC.
IT'S THIS SMALL TOWN ON THIS
BEAUTIFUL PRISTINE LAKE.
THE SCENERY IS JUST STUNNING,
SPECTACULAR.
VERY QUIET.
IT'S AN HISTORICAL TOWN BUILT
AROUND THESE TRAIN TRACKS.
PEOPLE ARE JUST... THEY'RE
DEVASTATED BY THE LOSS OF THESE
HISTORICAL BUILDINGS, THEIR
LIBRARY.
THEIR COMMERCE, THEIR BUSINESSES
THAT THEY SPENT ALL OF THEIR
LIVES IN THAT DOWNTOWN PORTION.
SO THAT IS A BIG LOSS FOR THEM.
MOST PEOPLE RIGHT NOW ARE MOST
WORRIED ABOUT THEIR FRIENDS AND
FAMILY WHO ARE STILL MISSING.
AND THEY HAVEN'T BEEN ABLE TO
SEE THE DEVASTATION YET EXACTLY
OF THAT RED ZONE.
SO THAT LOSS IS STILL...
>> Sreenivasan: LET'S TALK
SLIGHTLY IN A BIGGER PICTURE.
YOU KNOW, WE'RE HAVING
CONVERSATIONS AROUND THE COUNTRY
ABOUT TRANSPORTING FUEL ACROSS
THE KEYSTONE PIPELINE OF THE
UNITED STATES.
YOU HAVE PIPELINES.
YOU HAVE RAIL TRANSPORTS OF OIL
AND FUEL ACROSS CANADA.
HAS THIS RESTARTED THAT TYPE OF
A CONVERSATION ACROSS THE
COUNTRY THERE?
>> OH, YEAH.
THIS IS DEFINITELY IGNITED THIS
DEBATE.
EVEN RIGHT HERE IN MONTREAL
WE'RE STARTING TO HAVE GROUPS,
DECOUNCILLORS, YOU KNOW, ASKING
THESE QUESTIONS ABOUT THE
RAILROADS THAT RUN RIGHT THROUGH
OUR CITY BECAUSE CANADIAN
CITIES... A LOT OF THEM HAVE
BEEN BUILT AROUND THESE RAILROAD
TRACKS SO PEOPLE ARE VERY
CONCERNED ABOUT THAT.
ALSO ON JUST THE RENEWABLE
ENERGY, TOO.
SOME PEOPLE ARE SAYING WE CAN'T
HAVE THESE TRAINS.
WE CAN'T HAVE THESE PIPELINES
GOING RIGHT NEXT TO WHERE PEOPLE
ARE LIVING BECAUSE AS WE SEE
DISASTER HAS STRUCK AND PEOPLE
HERE ARE VERY CONCERNED ABOUT
THAT.
>> Sreenivasan: SOPHIE TREMBLAY
PRODUCER AT THE CANADIAN
BROADCASTING COMPANY, THANKS SO
MUCH FOR JOINING US.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT, A
TALE OF REAL PEOPLE WHO TRAVELED
BETWEEN AMERICA AND IRELAND,
THEIR STORIES BOUND TOGETHER IN
A NEW NOVEL.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR BOOK
CONVERSATION.
>> Brown: FREDERICK DOUGLASS
TRAVELING THROUGH IRELAND IN
1845 TO STIR UP SUPPORT FOR HIS
ABOLITIONIST CAUSE.
THE FIRST NON- STOP FLIGHT
ACROSS THE ATLANTIC IN 1919,
SENATOR GEORGE MITCHELL IN 1998
TRYING TO FORGE A PEACE TREATY
IN NORTHERN IRELAND.
ACTUAL PEOPLE AND EVENTS AT THE
HEART OF A FICTIONAL STORY IN
THE NEW NOVEL TRANSATLANTIC.
AUTHOR COLUMN McCANN HAS
HIMSELF CROSSED THAT OCEAN, BORN
IN IRELAND, LEAVING IN NEW YORK,
HIS PREVIOUS NOVEL LET THE GREAT
WORLD SPIN WON THE NATIONAL BOOK
AWARD.
WELCOME.
>> A PLEASURE TO BE HERE.
Brown: TRANSATLANTIC.
THIS IS ABOUT CONNECTIONS
BETWEEN TIME, BETWEEN IRELAND
WHERE YOU WERE BORN AND AMERICA
WHERE YOU NOW LIVE.
IS THAT PART OF IT?
IS THAT HOW IT WAS CONCEIVED?
>> IT WAS CONCEIVED ORIGINALLY
BECAUSE I WAS FASCINATED BY THE
STORY OF FREDERICK DOUGLASS
LANDING IN IRELAND IN 1845.
A 27-YEAR-OLD ABOLITIONIST WHO
WAS STILL A SLAVE AT THE TIME.
AND THEN FINDING A COUNTRY WHERE
THE PEOPLE WERE POORER THAN THE
PEOPLE HE HAD LEFT BEHIND.
>> Brown: HE COMES AS THE FAMINE
BEGINNING.
>> EXACTLY.
AND AN EXTRAORDINARY COLLISION
OF HISTORY AND TIME AND
CIRCUMSTANCE.
AND IT WAS SUCH A FANTASTIC
STORY BUT I WANTED TO BRING IT
UP TO DATE AND BRING IT ALL THE
WAY UP TO THE PRESENT DAY WHERE
SENATOR MITCHELL NEGOTIATE OUR
PEACE PROCESS.
>> Brown: EXPLAIN THIS THOUGH.
I MEAN, YOU GET INTO THIS
THROUGH A REAL CHARACTER AND
YOU'RE FASCINATED BY THE REAL
STORY.
AND THEN YOU START THINKING
ABOUT ABOUT OTHER REAL
CHARACTERS BUT YOU'RE ALSO
THINKING AS A NOVELIST?
>> I'M OF THE OPINION THAT THE
REAL IS IMAGINED AND THE
IMAGINED IS QUITE REAL S IS...
>> Brown: SAY THAT AGAIN.
THE REAL IS IMAGINED.
>> THE REAL ISAGED.
IN THE SENSE THAT WE SHAPE OUR
STORIES.
ANYTHING THAT EVEN HAPPENS ON
THE NEWS GETS SHAPED IN A
CERTAIN WAY.
AND GETS A TEXTURE.
AND THAT THE IMAGINED CAN BE
REAL IN THE SENSE THAT A NOVEL
LIKE ULYSSES AND LEOPOLD BLOOM
WALKED THE STREETS OF DUBLIN IN
1904 IN MY MIND HE IS AS
POWERFUL A CHARACTER AS MY GREAT
GRANDFATHER WHO ACTUALLY DID
WALK THE STREETS OF DUBLIN IN
1904 AT THE SAME TIME TOO.
WHEN WE TAKE FICTION AND
NONFICTION, I DON'T SEE SUCH A
HUGE GULF BETWEEN THEM.
THEY'RE ALL REALLY ABOUT STORIES
AND STORY TELLING.
>> Brown: SO BECAUSE SOMETIMES
WE TALK ABOUT FICTION BEING A
WAY OF TELLING US MORE THAN
HISTORY CAN.
I'M NOT SURE IF YOU'RE SAYING
THAT OR YOU'RE SAYING THAT THEY
BOTH TELL A DIFFERENT SORT OF
STORY.
>> WHAT I'M INTERESTED IN IS HOW
THE SMALL ANONYMOUS MOMENTS,
THEY CAN ENTER INTO THE LARGE
NARRATIVE OF THE BIGGER, MORE
PUBLIC MOMENTS.
YOU GET SOMEBODY LIKE FREDERICK
DOUGLASS GOING TO IRELAND IN
1845.
BUT HE CARRIES BAR BELLS WITH
HIM OR HE SEES A MAID ON THE
STAIRS AND HE GETS A WHIFF OF
TOBACCO FROM HER.
AND SO IN THE SMALL DETAILS THAT
WE CREATE A TEXTURE AND A SORT
OF AN UNLEGISLATED HISTORY, IF
YOU WILL.
>> Brown: I WAS THINKING YOU
HAVE FREDERICK DOUGLASS AND THEN
YOU HAVE THE TWO PILOTS IN 1919.
BUT THEN GEORGE MITCHELL,
SOMEONE WE'VE ALL FOLLOWED.
I'VE ACTUALLY BEEN ABLE TO
INTERVIEW HIM.
AS I WAS STARTING TO READ, I
THOUGHT A FICTIONAL VERSION OF
GEORGE MITCHELL.
IN THAT CASE YOU GOT TO TALK TO
HIM AND ACTUALLY FERRET OUT A
LITTLE BIT OF HIS STORY.
>> A MOST INCREDIBLE POLITICIAN
THAT I KNOW OF FROM OUR TIMES
FOR CERTAIN.
YOU KNOW, HE WENT ACROSS TO
IRELAND IN THE 1990INGS AND
SPENT TWO YEARS ASSOCIATING OUR
PEACE PROCESS.
BUT WHEN I FIRST STARTED WRITING
ABOUT HIM I WANTED TO IMAGINE
HIM FIRST.
AND THEN LATER TALK TO HIM AND
SPEND A FEW DAYS WITH HIM AND
PUT A SORT OF REALITY ON THE
IMAGINARY MAP.
YES, EVEN WITH SENATOR MITCHELL,
I HAVE HIM, FOR INSTANCE, HE WAS
64 YEARS OLD AND HE HAD A FIVE
MONTH OLD BABY.
ON THE FIRST PAGE HE CHANGES A
BABY'S DIAPER.
YOU KNOW, THE THING...
>> Brown: THE LITTLE DETAIL.
IT DOESN'T MAKE THE HISTORY
BOOKS.
>> EXACTLY.
SO THEY MAKE HIM REAL OR I HOPE
TO MAKE HIM REAL SO THAT WE CAN
FEEL THE DILEMMAS THAT GO ON FOR
SOME TIME.
>> Brown: BECAUSE WHAT HAPPENS
THEN... AND I'M NOT GIVING MUCH
AWAY HERE.
YOU FOLLOW HIM FOR THE NEXT FEW
DAYS.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
Brown: AS HE GETS TO THE
CLIMACTIC MOMENT OF THOSE PEACE
TALKS.
>> RIGHT.
Brown: AND WE HEAR HIS VOICE,
HIS THOUGHTS.
>> RIGHT.
Brown: CLEARLY ONES YOU'VE
MADE UP.
>> YES.
Brown: DO YOU KNOW WHETHER HE
FELT LIKE YOU CAPTURED IT RIGHT.
>> HIS WIFE WAS VERY KIND TO ME
AND SHE TOLD ME HE DID NOT WEAR
BROWN BROGUES BUT BLACK SHOES.
>> Brown: THAT WAS THE ONE
DETAIL YOU GOT WRONG.
>> THERE WAS A NUMBER OF DETAILS
THAT HELPED ME OUT WITH.
WHAT I WAS MOST INTERESTED IN
WAS GETTING THE TRUTH OF THE MAN
BEHIND, YOU KNOW, BEHIND THE
PUBLIC IDEA OF HIM.
AND HOPEFULLY I DID.
HE SAID THAT HE WAS VERY HAPPY
WITH THIS. HEAR THAT.
>> Brown: SO YOU HAVE THE FIRST
PART OF THE BOOK INTRODUCES
THESE WELL KNOWN FIGURES.
THE SECOND PART OF THE BOOK IS A
KIND OF FLIP SIDE OF THE STORY
OF SEVERAL GENERATIONS OF WOMEN
WHO HAVE BEEN PART OF THOSE
STORIES, RIGHT?
BUT ANONYMOUSLY.
>> YES.
NOW THAT IS ALL YOUR OWN
CREATION I ASSUME.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
WHAT DID THAT ALLOW YOU TO
DO, TO PLAY THEM AGAINST THESE
HISTORICAL FIGURES.
>> WOMEN AS WE KNOW GET THE
SHORTENED IN HISTORY.
IT'S BEEN LARGELY WRITTEN AND
DICTATED BY MEN OR MEN BELIEVE
THAT WE OWN IT AND WOMEN HAVE
REALLY BEEN IN THOSE QUIETER
MOMENTS AT THE EDGE OF HISTORY.
BUT REALLY THEY'RE THE ONES WHO
ARE TURNING THE COGS AND THE
WHEELS AND ALLOWING THINGS LIKE
THE PEACE PROCESS TO HAPPEN.
SO FOR ME, I TOOK THESE
IMAGINARY CHARACTERS AND PUT
THEM IN THE NARRATIVE OF THE
LARGER CHARACTERS.
SO I HAVE A MAID FROM IRELAND,
YOU KNOW.
SHE IS INSPIRED BY DOUGLAS.
I HAVE A REPORTER FROM CANADA,
AND SHE SEES THE FIRST BROWN.
THEN YOU BEGIN TO NOTICE THAT
ALL OF THESE STORIES, THEY'RE
CONNECTED.
THIS IS THE BIG FABRIC THAT WE
LIVE INSIDE.
>> Brown: WHAT WAS IT LIKE TO
CONSTRUCT THOUGH AS A NOVELIST?
DID YOU KNOW HOW ALL THESE
CONNECTIONS...
>> I HAD NO CLUE WHATSOEVER.
YOU KNOW, WHAT YOU WANT TO DO IS
CREATE THE APPEARANCE.
>> Brown: I APPRECIATE YOUR
SAYING HONESTLY BEFORE YOU
ANSWER THE QUESTION.
>> BECAUSE, YOU KNOW, IT WAS
TOUGH.
I NEVER, YOU KNOW, IT'S SORT OF
A PROCESS OF EXPLORING.
YOU SET OUT.
YOUR BOAT GOES OUT.
YOU THINK YOU'RE GOING TO CRASH.
OFTEN YOU DO SHIP WRECK BUT
EVERY NOW AND THEN YOU FIND A
LITTLE ISLAND.
AND THEN YOU GO EXPLORING.
THAT'S WHAT IT FELT LIKE FOR ME.
>> Brown: AND IN NEW NOVEL IS
TRANSATLANTIC.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> IT'S SUCH A PLEASURE, THANK
YOU.
>> Woodruff: COLUMN McCANN
READS AN EXCERPT FROM
TRANSATLANTIC ON OUR WEBSITE.
WATCH THAT VIDEO AT
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
INVESTIGATORS TRIED TO DETERMINE
WHY THE JET THAT CRASHED AT SAN
FRANCISCO'S AIRPORT ON SATURDAY
WAS FLYING TOO LOW AND TOO
SLOWLY.
THE DEATH TOLL GREW TO 13 IN
SATURDAY'S DEADLY TRAIN WRECK
AND FIRE IN A SMALL TOWN IN
CANADA.
AND IN EGYPT, AT LEAST 54 PEOPLE
DIED AS SOLDIERS AND POLICE
BATTLED ISLAMIST PROTESTERS.
>> Woodruff: ONLINE, THE REAL
REASON BEHIND SMOKING BANS ON
BEACHES.
HARI SREENIVASAN EXPLAINS.
>> Sreenivasan: WHO AND WHAT ARE
PUBLIC SMOKING BANS MEANT TO
PROTECT?
A NEW ARTICLE IN "HEALTH
AFFAIRS" SUGGESTS THAT THERE IS
LITTLE EVIDENCE BEHIND THE
TRADITIONAL ARGUMENT FOR THESE
BANS.
READ MORE ABOUT THE FINDINGS ON
OUR HEALTH PAGE.
AND IN OUR WEEKLY SOCIAL
SECURITY COLUMN, COLLECTING YOUR
LATE SPOUSE BEN'SFITS.
THAT'S ON MAKING SENSE.
PLUS, TELL US WHAT YOU THINK OF
OUR SCIENCE COVERAGE.
TAKE OUR SURVEY ON THE HOMEPAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
GWEN?
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, WE'LL UPDATE THE
SETTLEMENT CLAIMS FOLLOWING THE
2010 GULF OIL SPILL.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.